Org Units (#130)
common-fate/docs: docs/approvals/configuration/org-units.md

---

> sidebar_position: 11

Reviewer: Can you shift this page into `/docs/approvals/providers/aws-sso/org-units`?

The configuration section should only be for docs on configuring the entire Granted deployment, and this is provider-specific documentation.

---

> # AWS Organizational Unit Access

Reviewer: Let's use either "Organizational Unit" or "OU" in our docs. "Org Unit" feels jargony. I've fixed this in the new pages.

Granted Approvals has support for AWS Organzational Unit (OU) access control. This allows you to grant access to a set of accounts based on the OU structure of your AWS organization.

## What is an Organizational Unit?

OUs are a way to organize your AWS accounts into groups. You can read more about them [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/organizations/latest/userguide/orgs_manage_ous.html). By specifiying access to a specific OU, you can grant access to all accounts within that OU and all accounts within any child OUs.
![hierachical diagram of aws account structure](/img/org-units/structure.png)

## Why use OUs?

> OUs allow you to group accounts by business unit, project, or any other criteria you choose. In Granted Approvals this means less work for you. You can grant access to all accounts within an OU and not have to worry about adding new accounts to your access rule.

Reviewer: Why does it mean less work for you?

```suggestion
Granted Approvals automatically updates the available accounts when OUs are used in Access Rules.

For example, if you wish to allow team members to request access to any production account, you can create a Production OU in your AWS organization. In Granted, you can set up an Access Rule specifying the Production OU.

(@jordiup  - ADD EXAMPLE SCREENSHOT HERE)

When new accounts are added to the Production OU, they will automatically be made available for users to request access to under the same Access Rule. Granted Approvals syncs the available accounts every 5 minutes.
```

## What is the Root OU?

> The Root OU is the top level of your organization. It is the parent of all other OUs. It is the only OU that can have accounts directly attached to it. All other OUs must be a child of another OU. By selecting the Root OU in Granted Approvals you are granting access to all accounts in your organization. This should be reserved for Sandbox Accounts, Privilleged users or for break-glass access.

Reviewer: Add a sentence here like - "in Granted Approvals, the Root OU is shown as 'Root' when selecting an OU for an Access Rule", perhaps with a screenshot

> ## Getting Started

Reviewer: Add a requirements callout to this guide - the user needs to have the `commonfate/aws-sso` Access Provider configured for their deployment.

Navigate to the Access Rule Create page and select the Provider Input Field
![](/img/org-units/1.png)

> You will see three fields: Accounts, Organizational Units and Permission Sets. By selecting an account it will be individuall added to the list of accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will see three fields: Accounts, Organizational Units and Permission Sets. By selecting an account it will be individually added to the list of accounts.
```

> By selecting an OU it will add all accounts within that OU. You can also add accounts and OUs at the same time.

Reviewer: "it will add all accounts within that OU" can be made a bit more concise - the accounts are automatically synced, rather than manually matched. This phrasing makes it seem like the OU feature is a "select all" button which doesn't sync things.

```suggestion
Granted Approvals will show you a preview of what accounts will be available for selection by Granted Approvals end users. You can also add individual accounts and OUs at the same time.
```

> Selecting a Permission Set will reduce the access scope of the accounts you have selected to that permission set. If you select multiple permission sets, the requesting user can select one of those permission sets when making their access request.

Reviewer: Not relevant/needed for this docs page IMO

```suggestion
```

> ## How do I setup an OU in my AWS account?

Reviewer: This section needs to be modified a little bit to walk through how to use OUs with Granted Approvals, rather than how to use OUs in general. If users want to read about how to use OUs in general, AWS's docs are already good for that!

A good pattern to follow is the guide I wrote for the WAF deployment: https://docs.commonfate.io/granted-approvals/configuration/waf.

The pattern here to use is:
- Do an action
- See the change in Granted Approvals

This allows the users to build a deep understanding of the feature quickly.

In this example, this should be changed to:

1. Deploy an OU in your account
2. Create an Access Rule in Granted Approvals - see that the OU is available for selection
3. Create an account in the OU
4. Check Granted Approvals - see that the account is available for selection

The guide you've written is very close! But it's missing the steps where the users check their Granted Approvals deployment, which make it a lot more understandable and less of a general guide.

Using the AWS CLI you can create an OU in your account. You can read more about the CLI [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/organizations/create-organizational-unit.html). The following command will create an OU named "Engineering" in the Root OU of your account.

```

> aws organizations create-organizational-unit --parent-id <root-ou-id> --name "Engineering"

Reviewer: These steps are out of order. The root OU ID is needed for this command, so users should run `aws organizations list-roots` first.

We can also make this easier for users to run. I am a big fan of the AWS CLI's [`--query` filtering](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-usage-filter.html) as it allows us to build a one-liner that users can copy/paste to run through the docs super fast.

```suggestion
ROOT_OU_ID=$(aws organizations list-roots --query "Roots[0].Id" --output text)
aws organizations create-organizational-unit --parent-id $ROOT_OU_ID --name "Engineering"
```

```

You can find the Root OU ID by running the following command:

```
aws organizations list-roots
```

> To [create an account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/organizations/create-account.html) in your OU you can use the following command:

Reviewer: This should be more instructional and less informational - we're trying to guide the user through a set of predefined steps so they can see the value in OU access.

```suggestion
Create an account in your OU by running the following command:
```

```

> aws organizations create-account --email <email> --account-name <account-name> --role-name <role-name> --iam-user-access-to-billing ALLOW --parent-id <ou-id>

Reviewer: suggestions here - remove the optional variables (looks like AWS's defaults are fine and it adds cognitive overhead for users). Also, push the fields that you want users to edit towards the end of the command so it's easier for them to go backwards with their keyboard to edit it.

```suggestion
aws organizations create-account --account-name ApprovalsTestAccount --parent-id <ou-id> --email <email>
```

```

## Cleaning up

> If you no longer need an OU you can delete it using the AWS CLI. You can read more about the CLI [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/organizations/delete-organizational-unit.html). The following command will delete the OU named "Engineering" in the Root OU of your account.

Reviewer: This needs to be instructive rather than informational - the steps in this section should be:

1. Archive the Access Rule in your Granted Approvals deployment
2. Delete the AWS account that you created
3. Delete the AWS OU that you created

The section should take users back to the state that their account and deployment was in prior to running the guide, but they now have all the knowledge on how OU access works.

Author: Cheers Chris, have added in these steps

```
aws organizations delete-organizational-unit --organizational-unit-id <ou-id>
```

> You can find the OU ID by running the following command:

Reviewer: These commands are mixed up again - the OU ID needs to come from the second command you've listed below. So the second command needs to be moved above the first, and use `--query` to find the name as a one-liner.
